Relying Party Solution (#615)
italia/eidas-it-wallet-docs: docs/en/relying-party-solution.rst

.. _relying-party-solution:

Relying Party Solution
++++++++++++++++++++++++

A Relying Party, as an organizational entity relying upon IT-Wallet, provides technical Solutions (Relying Party Solution) that could combine software, hardware, services, settings, and configurations, including Relying Party Instances for User authentication and Digital Credential verification. 

In order to implement and provide technical solutions, a Relying Party could take advantage of services provided by an Intermediary Entity. A Relying Party Intermediary is an Organization Entity that may act on behalf of the Relying Party offering services to it, making the Relying Party able to connect to Wallet Instance and authenticate Users and verify User’s Digital Credentials. 

Logical architecture is composed of the following elements:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - **Trust Anchor**: It represents the root of trust for the entire system and consents to Relying Parties to federate in the IT Wallet ecosystem. Trust Anchor has PKI capabilities and issues Registration Certificates during the Relying Party onboarding process. 
> - **Relying Party**: Organizational Entity that provides Relying Party Solutions with the aim of authenticating Users and/or verifying Digital Credentials presented by Users through their Wallet Instances. A Relying Party may provide:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Relying Party provides at least one of the following components:
```

>    - **Relying Party Backend**: It handles Relying Party Instances registration and the relative certificate management. It MUST obtain a Registration Certificate by a TA or its intermediary, and it MUST have PKI capabilities to issue Access Certificates to its Relying Party Instances. It also may implement additional web services and business logic for its own purposes and use cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **Relying Party Backend**: It handles Relying Party Instances registration and the relative certificate management. It obtains X.509 Certificate according to the :ref:`The Infrastructure of Trust`. It SHOULD also provide a X.509 Certificate to its Relying Party Instances. It also may implement additional web services and business logic for its own purposes and use cases.
```

   :target: https://www.plantuml.com/plantuml/svg/jLHDRziy3BxxL_3DfIdmfhdij5FJD42DhPZHfYXsCcIPIOJ9aY39pOAX_tsadDZDl6BOOGOIcHG_deSVlWvH-DWsEljF6QdR6c4NemiVvtClzbTR5NTjrGRqqfg89bv9syoT5ePzPY7MMbNpvOTPmQgd-y_pHeI8dbJbqZRE6lPn73-xoszNvUDwzR3wilvQhAQNMNO1jxXH1a78Q7q0OMe81mhGXAn07woPSkx_OV94nuJE5Lcm2lQ43FBrx5beZN52mJAWfqzQhhx7QVHjYAKmScSvo9f5MB2OWl4l3w7500-uLI5w4PKri4GVrKP94R73vBnzKJK9nQSSf72YKbf5HOgDzH1t29HHUHm00KhRCKdGiXlRcbhumzIZFYYpBPtmyL1MHpK1UUWkeE0BUBIwPIoJI_XnJcpgNLa9-GrDFVAwwVGdRdU4NJEv0d8JeZ0ImRybojpaG1OQOSGM6-uPv8tJwJK03O0o609ekrKoSGuE9NjnCq2AW85u0ZtfRs3hIdNC_2xN7blFTSHtZrKfjIA9d9-nWcKIZZnPCwi8GmqRdyQq1aM7tmY92IrF3uWsxhXDSk1-gxOg2WrBZpLVqUiB-bIDhlY_XzDOwZ-MmZbAVfy4M3YdJsuCgx_vbyXUizSiUqnZbkPzdsQlBpcN9cc64XzNwIBq6JgBXFdjHdhKALFOAHUo6qKjE-xYECbJQl-PqQzDovcra36anHqPdvLqR9onxVao3rlmvoM6Q3b85sPm7ACiJdjEMbWKUUWypzr6UDzpwpYEcZBAkkZQFtnlZgqcGVRjFolSAEW8qry6lIPURQD_0W00

   Relying Party Solution High Level Architecture

Relying Party Solution Requirements
=====================================

This section lists the requirements to be met by Relying Parties and Relying Party Solutions.

> - The Relying Party MUST register with the Federation Authority to obtain a Registration Certificate that explicitly authorizes which credential types and specific attributes may be requested.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Relying Party MUST register with the Federation Authority to obtain bot the Access Certificate and the Registration Certificate.
```

where we have defined the Access Certificates an d the Registration Certificates we say their intended use and scopes.

- The Relying Party MUST implement secure mechanisms for handling and processing received Digital Credentials, ensuring the integrity and confidentiality of the Relying Party Solution.
- The Relying Party Solution MUST implement proper revocation procedures for compromised or decommissioned instances.

> - The Relying Party Solution MUST maintain an audit trail of credential verifications while respecting privacy requirements and data protection regulations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Relying Party Solution MUST maintain an audit trail of Credential verifications while respecting privacy requirements and data protection regulations.
```

- The Relying Party Solution MUST allow Selective Disclosure mechanisms during presentation scenarios.
- The Relying Party Backend MUST provide a RESTful set of services for registering Relying Party Instances and issuing Access Certificates.

> - The Relying Party Instance MUST periodically reestablish trust with the Relying Party through integrity checks and certificate renewal procedures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Relying Party Instance MUST periodically reestablish trust with the Relying Party through integrity checks and Certificate renewal procedures.
```

- The Relying Party Instance MUST provide both a Registration Certificate and Access Certificate to Wallet Instances during their interaction to prove the legitimacy and authorization of its requests.

> - The Relying Party Instance MUST communicate to Users which attributes are requested and for what purpose during any credential presentation flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Relying Party Instance MUST communicate to Users which attributes are requested and for what purpose during any Credential presentation flow.
```
